README.md, before:

# Wolfstation

This repo demonstrates a building a minimal [Wolfi](https://wolfi.dev/os)-based
image and deploying it to
[Google Cloud Workstations](https://cloud.google.com/workstations/).

### Usage

To build and deploy the basic minimal image:

```shell
terraform init
export TF_VAR_project=$(gcloud config get-value project)
terraform apply
```

This will build and deploy the image to a workstation cluster in your project,
and print commands to run to start and connect to the workstation using SSH.

If you want to just build and push the image, you can run:

```shell
export TF_VAR_target_repository=ttl.sh/wolfstation
terraform apply -target=module.image
```

### Cleanup

Cloud Workstations will stop when not being actively used, but they still
[cost money](https://cloud.google.com/workstations/pricing/) even when idle. To avoid
unnecessary costs, you can delete the cluster if you're just experimenting:

```shell
terraform destroy
```

### Adding more packages

Being minimal, this image itself is not particularly useful, but the intent
is to demonstrate a basis from which additional tooling may be installed to
build up a more complete image for your own environment.

For example, if you would like to install `gcloud` you can add the
`google-cloud-sdk` package to the package list in `main.tf`, or try it here
via:

```shell
export TF_VAR_extra_packages='["google-cloud-sdk"]'
terraform apply
```

For example, if you would like to interact with GKE, then you can add the
`gke-gcloud-auth-plugin` package (which will pull in `google-cloud-sdk` and
`kubectl`), or try it here via:

```shell
export TF_VAR_extra_packages='["gke-gcloud-auth-plugin"]'
terraform apply
```

While the image is configured to run as root to bootstrap, when you connect via
Cloud Workstations you will be logged in as `user`, and in the spirit of
minimalism and least privilege this image does not contain `sudo` or `apk`
so you will need to configure the image to have these if you would like to
extend the image.  You may also want to set up "passwordless" `sudo`.

Commit message:

add one-time setup for GH auto updates
Signed-off-by: Jason Hall <jason@chainguard.dev>

README.md, after:

# Wolfstation

This repo demonstrates a building a minimal [Wolfi](https://wolfi.dev/os)-based
image and deploying it to
[Google Cloud Workstations](https://cloud.google.com/workstations/).

### Usage

To build and deploy the basic minimal image:

```shell
terraform init
export TF_VAR_project=$(gcloud config get-value project)
terraform apply
```

This will build and deploy the image to a workstation cluster in your project,
and print commands to run to start and connect to the workstation using SSH.

If you want to just build and push the image, you can run:

```shell
export TF_VAR_target_repository=ttl.sh/wolfstation
terraform apply -target=module.image
```

### Automatic Updates

This repo can also be configured to automatically build and deploy new images
on a nightly cadence.

To set this up, follow instructions in [`setup/README.md`](setup/README.md) and
update [`.github/workflows/release.yaml`](.github/workflows/release.yaml)

### Cleanup

Cloud Workstations will stop when not being actively used, but they still
[cost money](https://cloud.google.com/workstations/pricing/) ($.20/hour, or $4.80/day)
even when the workstation is stopped.

To avoid unnecessary costs, you can delete the cluster if you're just experimenting:

```shell
terraform destroy
```

### Adding more packages

Being minimal, this image itself is not particularly useful, but the intent
is to demonstrate a basis from which additional tooling may be installed to
build up a more complete image for your own environment.

For example, if you would like to install `gcloud` you can add the
`google-cloud-sdk` package to the package list in `main.tf`, or try it here
via:

```shell
export TF_VAR_extra_packages='["google-cloud-sdk"]'
terraform apply
```

For example, if you would like to interact with GKE, then you can add the
`gke-gcloud-auth-plugin` package (which will pull in `google-cloud-sdk` and
`kubectl`), or try it here via:

```shell
export TF_VAR_extra_packages='["gke-gcloud-auth-plugin"]'
terraform apply
```

While the image is configured to run as root to bootstrap, when you connect via
Cloud Workstations you will be logged in as `user`, and in the spirit of
minimalism and least privilege this image does not contain `sudo` or `apk`
so you will need to configure the image to have these if you would like to
extend the image.  You may also want to set up "passwordless" `sudo`.
